---
layout: page
title: Curriculum Vitae
group: "navigation"
permalink: /CV/
---

---
## HUANG, Jia-Ping

*Last update: February 19, 2022*   

Ph.D. (economics), Ph.D. in Engineering   
Assistant Professor   
Research Institute of New Economy and Finance   
China Center for Special Economic Zone Research   
Shenzhen University


---
### Research Interests

Cooperative Game Theory, Social and Economic Networks, Mathematical Economics

---
### Education

* Doctor of Philosophy (economics), VU University Amsterdam/Tinbergen Institute, the Netherlands, 2011-2015  
  Dissertation: *Topics on Social and Economic Networks*, Completion: April 5, 2016
* PhD in Engineering, University of Tsukuba, Japan, 2008-2011  
  Dissertation: *Dynamic Stochastic Analysis of Risk Management Problems in Financial Engineering and Manufacturing*
* Master of Engineering, University of Tsukuba, Japan, 2006-2008
* Bachelor of Policy and Planning Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Japan, 2002-2006


---
### Work Experience

<dl>
  <dt><i>Nov 2015 - present</i></dt>   
  <dd>
  Assistant Professor, Shenzhen University.
  </dd>

  <dt><i>Apr 2011 - Aug 2011</i></dt>   
  <dd>
  Postdoctoral Research Fellow, University of Tsukuba.
  </dd>
</dl>


---
### Selected Publications

1. Qin, Q., Liu, Y., & **Huang, J.-P.** (2020). A cooperative game analysis for the allocation of carbon emissions reduction responsibility in China's power industry. *Energy Economics*, 92, 104960.    
[doi:10.1016/j.eneco.2020.104960](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140988320303005)    
2. **Huang, J.-P.**, Heidergott, B., & Lindner, I. (2019). Naïve Learning in Social Networks with Random Communication.    
*Social Networks*, 58, 1-11. [doi:10.1016/j.socnet.2019.01.004](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378873318300923)    
3. van den Brink, R., He, S., & **Huang, J.-P.** (2018). Polluted River Problems and Games with a Permission Structure.   
*Games and Economic Behavior*, 108, 182-205. [doi:10.1016/j.geb.2017.10.005](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S089982561730177X)
4. **Huang, J.-P.**, Koster, M., & Lindner, I. (2016). Diffusion of behavior in network games with threshold dynamics.   
*Mathematical Social Sciences*, 84, 109-118. [doi:10.1016/j.mathsocsci.2016.10.007](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165489616301305)
5. **Huang, J.-P.**, & Sumita, U. (2015). Development of Computational Algorithms for Pricing European Bond Options under the Influence of Macro-economic Conditions.   
*Applied Mathematics and Computation*, 251, 453-468. [doi:10.1016/j.amc.2014.11.071](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0096300314016038)
6. **Huang, J.-P.**, & Sumita, U. (2013). Dynamic Analysis of a Multivariate Reward Process Defined on the UMCP with Application to Optimal Preventive Maintenance Policy Problems in Manufacturing.   
*Probability in the Engineering and Informational Sciences*, 27(2), 187-208. [doi:10.1017/S0269964812000411](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/probability-in-the-engineering-and-informational-sciences/article/dynamic-analysis-of-a-multivariate-reward-process-defined-on-the-umcp-with-application-to-optimal-preventive-maintenance-policy-problems-in-manufacturing/9381BAE5C5E950D9296993784662B007)
7. **Huang, J.-P.**, & Sumita, U. (2012). Evaluation of Cumulative Random Shocks Generated from a Semi-Markov Modulated Poisson Process and Its Application to CDO Pricing.   
*Journal of the Operations Research Society of Japan*, 55(2), 158-180. [[Download]](http://www.orsj.or.jp/~archive/pdf/e_mag/Vol.55_02_158.pdf)
8. Sumita, U., & **Huang, J.-P.** (2009). Dynamic Analysis of a Unified Multivariate Counting Process and Its Asymptotic Behavior.   
*International Journal of Mathematics and Mathematical Sciences*, vol. 2009, Article ID 219532, 43 pages. [doi:10.1155/2009/219532](https://www.hindawi.com/journals/ijmms/2009/219532/)

---
### International Conference Presentations

1. *20th Annual SAET Conference*, Seoul (online), Republic of Korea, June 13-17, 2021
2. *2018 International Conference on Economic Theory and Applications*, Chengdu, China, Jul 18-20, 2018
3. *Euro2018: 29th European Conference on Operational Research*, Valencia, Spain, Jul 8-11, 2018
4. *NetSci-X 2018: International School and Conference on Network Science*, poster, Hangzhou, China, Jan 5-8, 2018
5. *18th INFORMS Applied Probability Society Conference*, Istanbul, Turkey, Jul 5-8, 2015
6. *14th China Economics Annual Conference*, Shenzhen, China, Dec 13-14, 2014
7. *IMA Conference on Game Theory and its Applications*, Oxford, UK, Dec 8-10, 2014
8. *1st European Conference on Social Networks*, Barcelona, Spain, Jul 1-4, 2014
9. *International Conference on Operations Research (OR2013)*, Rotterdam, The Netherlands, Sep 3-6, 2013
10. *7th International Conference Game Theory and Management (GTM2013)*, St. Petersburg, Russia, Jun 26-28, 2013
11. *11th Workshop on Networks in Economics and Sociology - Multidisciplinary Economics and Networks*, Utrecht, The Netherlands, Jun 13-14, 2013
12. *4th international workshop on “Models of Influence and Network Theory” and Tinbergen workshop on Economic Theory and Game Theory*, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, Apr 25-26, 2013
13. *2008 International Workshop on Applied Probability (IWAP2008)*, Compiègne, France, Jul 7-10, 2008

---
### Teaching

<dl>
  <dt><i>Undergraduate</i></dt>   
  <dd>
  An Introduction to Social Networks [Chinese & English] (fall 2016-2017). <br>   
  Calculus I, aka Advanced Mathematics C(1) [English] (spring 2019-2022). <br>
  Calculus II, aka Advanced Mathematics C(2) [English] (spring 2018, fall 2019-2021). <br>   
  Statistics [English] (spring 2019-2021). <br>
  Using R in Financial Statistics [Chinese & English] (spring 2019).
  </dd>

  <dt><i>Graduate</i></dt>   
  <dd>
  Econometrics I [Chinese & English] (fall 2016-2019). <br>
  Economic Networks and Dynamic Decision [Chinese & English] (spring 2019). <br>
  Advanced Econometrics [Chinese & English] (spring 2021-2022).
  </dd>
</dl>

---
### Fundings

1. Ph.D. Start-up Grant, Methods and Applications in Complex Networks Analysis based on Cooperative Game Theory, granted by Natural Science Foundation of Guangdong Province, 2018A030310608, 2018-2021.    
2. Young Creative Talent Project (Humanities and Social Sciences), Theoretical Research on Network Effects in Dynamic Decision Problems, granted by Department of Education of Guangdong Province, 2016WQNCX129, 2017-2018. (completed)
3. Start-up Grant for Young Researchers in Humanities and Social Sciences, Dynamic Decision Problems in Social Networks, granted by Shenzhen University, 16QNFC45, 2016-2017. (completed)


---
### Awards

1. Outstanding Youth Paper Award, Polluted River Problems and Games with a Permission Structure, presented at *2018 Eighth International Conference of Game Theory and Applications (ICGTA2018)*, Game Theory and Applications Branch, Operations Research Society of China, Sep 23, 2018.


---
### Professional Activities

* Young Fellow of Game Theory Branch of the ORSC, 2021-
* Member of the Society for the Advancement of Economic Theory (SAET), since 2021
* Member of the Operations Research Society of China, since 2016
* Member of The Operations Research Society of Japan, 2008-2015
* Reviewer of *Mathematical Reviews*, since 2017   
* Reviewer of *Review of Network Economics*, 2019    
* Reviewer of *European Journal of Operational Research*, 2018    
* Reviewer of *Open Physics* (formerly *Central European Journal of Physics*), 2015    
* Reviewer of *Probability in the Engineering and Informational Sciences*, 2011    
* Associate editor-in-chief of *Sustainable Development in East Asia Countries*, Beijing: Social Sciences Academic Press (China), 2017
* Contributor of *Annual Report on the Development of China's Special Economic Zones (Blue Book of Special Economic Zones)*, 2016-2018, Tao, Y. & Yuan, Y. (Eds.), Beijing: Social Sciences Academic Press (China)
* Associate editor of *Studies on China’s Special Economic Zones* (in Chinese), 2015-2017, Yuan, Y. (Ed.), Beijing: Social Sciences Academic Press (China)


---
### Languages and Skills

Mandarin Chinese (native), Japanese (excellent), English (fluent)  
MATLAB (very good), LaTeX (very good), R (good), Linux (familiar)

---
